CSS ROUNDED CORNERS

CSS ROUNDED CORNERS
With the CSS border-radius property, you can give any element "rounded corners"

CSS border-radius property

The CSS border-radius property defines the radius of an element corners.

Tip: This property allows you to add rounded corners to elements!

Tip: The border-radius property is actually a shorthand property for the border-top-left radius, border-top-right-radius, border-bottom-right-radius and border-bottom-left-radius properties.

CSS border-radius -Specify Each Corner.

The border-radius property can have from one to four values. Here are the rules:

Four values-border-radius: 15px 50px 30px 5px; (first value applies to top-left corner, second value applies to top-right corner, third value applies to bottom-right corner, and fourth value applies to bottom-left corner).

Three values- border-radius: 15px 50px 30px; (first value applies to the top-left corner, the second value applies to the top-right and bottom-left corners and the third value applies to the bottom-right corner.

Two values-border-radius: 15px 50px; (first value applies to top-left and bottom-right corners, and the second value applies to the top-right corner and bottom-left corner.)

One value- border-radius: 15px( the value applies to all the four corners, which are rounded equally)

CSS Border Images

CSS Border Images

With the CSS border-image property, you can set an image to be used as the border around an element.


CSS border-image property

The CSS border-image property allows you to specify an image to be used instead of the normal border around an element.

The property has three parts:
1. The image to use as the border
2. Where to slice the image
3. Define whether the middle sections should be repeated or stretched.

Note: The border-image property takes the image and slices it into nine sections, like a tic-tac-toe board. It then places the  corners at the corners, and the middle sections are repeated or stretched as you specify.

FOR border-image to work, the element also needs the border property set!

Here, the middle sections of the image are repeated to create the border:

border: 0.5em solid transparent;
border-image: url(path to image);
padding: 0.5em;


Here, the middle section of the image are stretched to create the border.

Note: The border-image property is actually a shorthand property for the border-image-source, border-image slice, border-image-width, border-image-outset and border-image-repeat properties.


CSS Multiple Backgrounds

In this chapter you will learn how to add multiple background images to one element.

You will also learn about the following properties:
background-size
background-origin
background-clip


CSS Multiple Backgrounds

CSS allows you to add multiple background images for an element, through the background-image property.

The different background images are separated by commas, and the images are stacked on top of each other, where the first image is closest to the viewer.

Specifying Multiple Backgrounds

background-image: url("path to image"), url(path to image);/* both works*/
background-position: left bottom, right top;
background-repeat: no-repeat, no-repeat;

Note: If you want to use the background shorthand, you have to first specify background-image, background-position and background-repeat for that image, before going to the next image.

Note: Multiple background images can be specified using either the individual background properties(as above) or the background shorthand properly.


CSS Background Size

The CSS background-size property allows you to specify the size of background images.

The size can be specified in lengths, percentages, or by using one of the two keywords: contain or cover.

<div class="test">

</div>


.test{
border: 0.5em solid transparent;
background-image: url(path to image);
backgrounnd-position: left bottom;
padding:0.2em;
background-size:100px 50px;

}


The two other possible values for background-size are contain and cover.

The contain Keyword scales the background image to be as large as possible (but both its width and its height must fit inside the content area). As such, depending on the properties of the background image and the background positioning area, there may be some areas of the background which are not covered by the background image.


The cover keyword scales the background image so that the content area is completely covered by the background image(both its width and height are equal to or exceed the content area). As such, some parts of the background image may not be visible in the background positioning area.


Define Sizes of Multiple Background Images

The background-size property also accepts multiple values for background size (using a comma-separated list), when working with multiple backgrounds.


Full Size Background Image
Now we want to have a background image on a website that covers the entire browser window at all times.

The requirements are as follows:

Fill the entire page with the image(no white space)
Scale image as needed
Center image on page
Do no cause scrollbars.

The following example shows how to do it; use the <html> element (the <html> element is always at least the height of the browser window). Then set a fixed and centered background on it.


css
.hero-image{
background-image: url(path to image);
background-size:cover;
background-position:center;
height:500px;
position:relative;


CSS background-origin Property.

The CSS background-origin property specifies where the background image is positioned.

The property takes three different values:
border-box: the background image starts from the upper left corner of the border.

padding-box: (default) the background image starts from the upper left corner of the padding edge.

content-box: the background image starts from the upper left corner of the content.


CSS Colors

RGBA Colors

RGBA color values are an extension of RGB color value with an alpha channel, which specifies the opacity for a color.

An RGBA color value is specified with rgba(red, green, blue, alpha). The alpha parameter is a number between 0.0(fully transparent) and 1.0(fully opaque).

for the css

.color{
background-color:rgba(255,0,0,0.2)(red with transparency of 0.2)
background-color:rgba(255,0,0,1)red
}


HSL Colors

HSL stands for Hue, Saturation and Lightness.

An HSL color value is specified with: hsl(hue, saturation, lightness).

1. Hue is a degree on the color wheel (from 0 to 360):

0(or 360) is red.
120 is green.
240 is blue.

2. Saturation is a percentage value: 100% is the full color.
3. Lightness is also a percentage: 0% is dark(black) and 100% is white.


HSLA Colors

HSLA color values are an extension of HSL color values with an alpha channel, which specifies the opacity for a color.

An HSLA color value is specified with hsla(hue, saturation,lightness, alpha), where the alpha parameter defines the opacity.


Opacity

The CSS opacity property sets the opacity for the whole element (both background color and text will be opaque/transparent).

The opacity property value must be a number between 0.0(fullyhue transparent) and 1.0(fully opaque).


CSS Color Keywords

This page will explain the transparent, currentcolor, and inherit keywords.


The transparent Keyword

The transparent keyword is used to make a color transparent. This is often used to make a transparent background color for an element.

css

.hero{
background-image: url(path to image);
background-color:transparent;

}


